---
layout: post
title: Database Internals Meetup №7
tags: [meetup]
---

## Meetup №7 (online). Cloud Native & Serverless: WeSQL + Nile 

> This time we dive into Cloud Native and Serverless with two innovative systems: WeSQL and Nile

<!--more-->

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8UOhb6mJAFA?si=NIqZ7RVoVHv6gGrD" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<p>
  <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8UOhb6mJAFA" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
    <i class="fab fa-youtube"></i> YouTube
  </a>
</p>

<iframe src="https://vkvideo.ru/video_ext.php?oid=-226977842&id=456239024&hd=2&autoplay=1" width="853" height="480" allow="autoplay; encrypted-media; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; screen-wake-lock;" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<p>
  <a href="https://vkvideo.ru/video-226977842_456239024" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">
    <i class="fab fa-vk"></i> VK
  </a>
</p>

# Доклады / Talks

## WeSQL: A Cloud-Native Database Built on General-Purpose IaaS
> Zhao Dongsheng, Founding Engineer, Storage Engine Team Lead, WeSQL

_Доклад на анлийском языке_

In this talk, we’ll introduce WeSQL, a cloud-native database designed to run efficiently on general-purpose IaaS infrastructure. We’ll share the motivation behind building WeSQL, explain why we chose an LSM Tree-based storage engine, and how we leverage both instance disks and S3 as storage media. We’ll also dive into how WeSQL achieves high cost-efficiency through the decoupling of latency and durability, the use of persistent cache, and a hybrid row-column storage format. Additionally, we’ll explain how consistent snapshots are used to fully persist data to S3.

In addition, we’ll share our future plans for WeSQL — how we aim to deliver extremely low RTO in scenarios with massive tables and large-scale datasets and how WeSQL’s upcoming Data Branch capability will enable lightweight, fast backup and restore, making data versioning and recovery more efficient and agile than ever before.

## Nile: Serverless Postgres for Modern Multi-Tenant SaaS
> Peter Pleshachkov, Founding Engineer, Nile

_Доклад на английском языке._

Nile is a serverless Postgres platform built for modern B2B SaaS applications. At the heart of every B2B SaaS product is multi-tenancy. A tenant — typically a company, an organization, or a workspace in your product that encapsulates a group of users and their data. Nile treats tenants as first-class citizens, making it simple to build secure, isolated, and globally distributed applications from day one.

It decouples storage from compute, virtualizes tenants at the database level, and offers seamless vertical and horizontal scaling across regions — enabling teams to ship faster, stay secure, and scale without limits.

We’ll walk through the key architectural decisions behind Nile, and how we designed a modern Postgres infrastructure to meet the needs of today’s high-growth SaaS applications.

[Back to Home]({{ "/" | relative_url }})